README.md, before:

# NAME

tty - Control TTY terminals and ANSI colour sequences

# SYNOPSIS

**package require tty** ?0.1?

**tty strip\_ansi** *string*

**tty printable\_length** *string*

**tty c** ?colour …?

**tty colour** ?colour …? *script*

**tty colour\_format** *formatString* ?arg …?

**tty table** ?options?

**tty setup**

**tty get columns**

**tty get lines**

**tty set\_mode\_cursor**

**tty reset\_mode\_cursor**

**tty clear**

**tty clear\_to\_end**

**tty goto** *line* *column*

**tty set\_scroll\_region** *from* *to*

**tty clear\_to\_end\_of\_line**

**tty goto\_last\_line**

**tty on\_resize** *key* *cb*

**tty save\_cursor** *script*

**tty can** *capability*

# DESCRIPTION

This package allows Tcl scripts to control TTYs (move cursors, set
scroll regions, clear portions of the screen, etc), and work with ANSI
colour escape sequences, and provides some utility functions built upon
these.

There is a lot of overlap between the scope of this package and the
term::\* packages in tcllib. Consider using the tcllib implementation if
your platform can’t exec tput, or you lack one of the required packages
(tclsignal, parse\_args).

# COMMANDS

  - **tty strip\_ansi** *string*  
    Return *string* with all ANSI escape sequences and characters
    between SOH () and SOT () removed.

  - **tty printable\_length** *string*  
    Return the number of printable characters in *string* - that is -
    the number of columns it occupies on the terminal.

  - **tty c** ?colour …?  
    Output an ANSI escape sequence that changes the text colour to the
    set specified. See **COLOUR CODES** below.

  - **tty colour** ?colour …? *script*  
    Execute *script* and return its result, wrapped in ANSI escape
    sequences to colourise the returned result with each of the supplied
    colours, and resetting the colour afterwards.

  - **tty colour\_format** *formatString* ?arg …?  
    Wrapper around **format** which adjusts the string field widths to
    compensate for ANSI escape sequences (non-printing characters).

  - **tty table** ?options?  
    Format the input data into a tabular output and return the formatted
    text. Options:
    
    | Option           | Required           | Description                                                                                                                                 |
    | ---------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | \-data           | required           | The input data to format, as a list of dictionaries                                                                                         |
    | \-columns        | required           | Definition of the output columns. See **TABLE COLUMN FORMAT** for details                                                                   |
    | \-col\_sep       | no, default: " | " | The characters to use to separate adjacent table cells horizontally                                                                         |
    | \-formatters     | no, default {}     | A dictionary, keyed by the column name, whose values are lambdas that take the raw column value and return a transformed version to display |
    | \-border\_colour | no, default white  | The colour to use when displaying table separators or structure                                                                             |
    

  - **tty setup**  
    Register signal handlers to respond to SIGWINCH and SIGTERM, SIGINT
    correctly, and hook ::exit for required cleanup.

  - **tty get columns**  
    Return the current width of the terminal in characters. Value is
    cached and automatically updated on SIGWINCH.

  - **tty get lines**  
    Return the current height of the terminal in lines. Value is cached
    ands automatically updated on SIGWINCH.

  - **tty set\_mode\_cursor**  
    Set cursor mode. Configures the terminal for applications that use
    cursor movement.

  - **tty reset\_mode\_cursor**  
    Resets the terminal from cursor mode.

  - **tty clear**  
    Clear the screen

  - **tty clear\_to\_end**  
    Erases the content in the terminal from the current cursor position
    to the end of the terminal window.

  - **tty goto** *line* *column*  
    Move the cursor to the specified *line* and *column*. Both *line*
    and *column* are 0-based, ie. position 0, 0 is the top-left
    character cell in the terminal window.

  - **tty set\_scroll\_region** *from* *to*  
    Set the range of lines that will scroll, from *from* to *to*,
    inclusive.

  - **tty clear\_to\_end\_of\_line**  
    Erases content from the current cursor position to the end of the
    line.

  - **tty goto\_last\_line**  
    Move the cursor to the start of the last line of the terminal
    window.

  - **tty on\_resize** *key* *cb*  
    Register a callback to be invoked when the terminal window resizes.
    *key* is some unique name for this callback, and *cb* is a script to
    run when the terminal is resized. The values of \[tty get columns\]
    and \[tty get lines\] will reflect the new size in the callback. To
    remove the callback, pass the *key* used to register it, with an
    empty *cb*.

  - **tty save\_cursor** *script*  
    Execute *script* (in the caller’s frame), saving the cursor position
    before and restoring it after executing *script*. DOES NOT NEST.

  - **tty can** *capability*  
    Return a boolean value indicating whether the current terminal
    supports *capability*. Available capabilities that can be tested
    are:
    
    | capability | Description                            |
    | ---------- | -------------------------------------- |
    | overstrike | Does this terminal support overstrike? |
    | statusline | Does this terminal have a status line? |
    

# COLOUR CODES

| Code       | Description                                |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| black      | Foreground black                           |
| red        | Foreground red                             |
| green      | Foreground green                           |
| yellow     | Foreground yellow                          |
| blue       | Foreground blue                            |
| purple     | Foreground purple                          |
| cyan       | Foreground cyan                            |
| white      | Foreground white                           |
| bg\_black  | Background black                           |
| bg\_red    | Background red                             |
| bg\_green  | Background green                           |
| bg\_yellow | Background yellow                          |
| bg\_blue   | Background blue                            |
| bg\_purple | Background purple                          |
| bg\_cyan   | Background cyan                            |
| bg\_white  | Background white                           |
| inverse    | Invert background and foreground           |
| bold       | Text to bold                               |
| underline  | Underline text                             |
| bright     | Foreground bright                          |
| norm       | Reset foreground and background to default |

# TABLE COLUMN FORMAT

The **tty table** command takes a list of columns, each of which is a
list of 4 elements:

  - The column title.
  - The column key (key into the row dictionary for this column’s
    value).
  - The alignment of the characters within this column, one of: *left*,
    *right*, *centre*.
  - Additional options for this column’s format. Currently supported is
    *-size*, which can take the values *fixed*, *grow*, *shrink* or
    *both*, and which controls how this column’s width is adjusted in
    response to an excess or deficit in the availability of space for
    the table.

# EXAMPLES

Format a table:

``` tcl
set data {
    {
        server      web1
        status      up
        r/s         23.4163626
    }
    {
        server      web2
        status      down
        r/s         {}
    }
    {
        server      web3
        status      up
        r/s         21.4381318
    }
}

puts [tty table \
    -data $data \
    -columns {
        { Status       status  centre  {-size fixed} }
        { Server       server  left    {-size grow}  }
        { Requests/sec r/s     right   {-size fixed} }
    } -formatters {
        status {v {
            if {$v eq "up"} {
                tty colour green {set v}
            } else {
                tty colour red {set v}
            }
        }}
        r/s {v {
            if {$v eq ""} {
                tty colour red {return -level 0 --}
            } else {
                format %.1f $v
            }
        }}
    } \
]
```

# LICENSE

This package is Copyright 2021 Cyan Ogilvie, and is made available under
the same license terms as the Tcl Core.

Commit message:

Fix missing init and reset

README.md, after:

# NAME

tty - Control TTY terminals and ANSI colour sequences

# SYNOPSIS

**package require tty** ?0.1?

**tty strip\_ansi** *string*

**tty printable\_length** *string*

**tty c** ?colour …?

**tty colour** ?colour …? *script*

**tty colour\_format** *formatString* ?arg …?

**tty table** ?options?

**tty setup**

**tty get columns**

**tty get lines**

**tty set\_mode\_cursor**

**tty reset\_mode\_cursor**

**tty clear**

**tty clear\_to\_end**

**tty goto** *line* *column*

**tty set\_scroll\_region** *from* *to*

**tty clear\_to\_end\_of\_line**

**tty goto\_last\_line**

**tty on\_resize** *key* *cb*

**tty save\_cursor** *script*

**tty can** *capability*

**tty init**

**tty reset**

# DESCRIPTION

This package allows Tcl scripts to control TTYs (move cursors, set
scroll regions, clear portions of the screen, etc), and work with ANSI
colour escape sequences, and provides some utility functions built upon
these.

There is a lot of overlap between the scope of this package and the
term::\* packages in tcllib. Consider using the tcllib implementation if
your platform can’t exec tput, or you lack one of the required packages
(tclsignal, parse\_args).

# COMMANDS

  - **tty strip\_ansi** *string*  
    Return *string* with all ANSI escape sequences and characters
    between SOH () and SOT () removed.

  - **tty printable\_length** *string*  
    Return the number of printable characters in *string* - that is -
    the number of columns it occupies on the terminal.

  - **tty c** ?colour …?  
    Output an ANSI escape sequence that changes the text colour to the
    set specified. See **COLOUR CODES** below.

  - **tty colour** ?colour …? *script*  
    Execute *script* and return its result, wrapped in ANSI escape
    sequences to colourise the returned result with each of the supplied
    colours, and resetting the colour afterwards.

  - **tty colour\_format** *formatString* ?arg …?  
    Wrapper around **format** which adjusts the string field widths to
    compensate for ANSI escape sequences (non-printing characters).

  - **tty table** ?options?  
    Format the input data into a tabular output and return the formatted
    text. Options:
    
    | Option           | Required           | Description                                                                                                                                 |
    | ---------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | \-data           | required           | The input data to format, as a list of dictionaries                                                                                         |
    | \-columns        | required           | Definition of the output columns. See **TABLE COLUMN FORMAT** for details                                                                   |
    | \-col\_sep       | no, default: " | " | The characters to use to separate adjacent table cells horizontally                                                                         |
    | \-formatters     | no, default {}     | A dictionary, keyed by the column name, whose values are lambdas that take the raw column value and return a transformed version to display |
    | \-border\_colour | no, default white  | The colour to use when displaying table separators or structure                                                                             |
    

  - **tty setup**  
    Register a signal handler to respond to SIGWINCH correctly,
    initialize the terminal, set cursor mode and hook ::exit for
    required cleanup.

  - **tty get columns**  
    Return the current width of the terminal in characters. Value is
    cached and automatically updated on SIGWINCH.

  - **tty get lines**  
    Return the current height of the terminal in lines. Value is cached
    ands automatically updated on SIGWINCH.

  - **tty set\_mode\_cursor**  
    Set cursor mode. Configures the terminal for applications that use
    cursor movement.

  - **tty reset\_mode\_cursor**  
    Resets the terminal from cursor mode.

  - **tty clear**  
    Clear the screen

  - **tty clear\_to\_end**  
    Erases the content in the terminal from the current cursor position
    to the end of the terminal window.

  - **tty goto** *line* *column*  
    Move the cursor to the specified *line* and *column*. Both *line*
    and *column* are 0-based, ie. position 0, 0 is the top-left
    character cell in the terminal window.

  - **tty set\_scroll\_region** *from* *to*  
    Set the range of lines that will scroll, from *from* to *to*,
    inclusive.

  - **tty clear\_to\_end\_of\_line**  
    Erases content from the current cursor position to the end of the
    line.

  - **tty goto\_last\_line**  
    Move the cursor to the start of the last line of the terminal
    window.

  - **tty on\_resize** *key* *cb*  
    Register a callback to be invoked when the terminal window resizes.
    *key* is some unique name for this callback, and *cb* is a script to
    run when the terminal is resized. The values of \[tty get columns\]
    and \[tty get lines\] will reflect the new size in the callback. To
    remove the callback, pass the *key* used to register it, with an
    empty *cb*.

  - **tty save\_cursor** *script*  
    Execute *script* (in the caller’s frame), saving the cursor position
    before and restoring it after executing *script*. DOES NOT NEST.

  - **tty can** *capability*  
    Return a boolean value indicating whether the current terminal
    supports *capability*. Available capabilities that can be tested
    are:
    
    | capability | Description                            |
    | ---------- | -------------------------------------- |
    | overstrike | Does this terminal support overstrike? |
    | statusline | Does this terminal have a status line? |
    

  - **tty init**  
    Send the init sequences defined for this terminal.

  - **tty reset**  
    Send the reset sequences defined for this terminal.

# COLOUR CODES

| Code       | Description                                |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| black      | Foreground black                           |
| red        | Foreground red                             |
| green      | Foreground green                           |
| yellow     | Foreground yellow                          |
| blue       | Foreground blue                            |
| purple     | Foreground purple                          |
| cyan       | Foreground cyan                            |
| white      | Foreground white                           |
| bg\_black  | Background black                           |
| bg\_red    | Background red                             |
| bg\_green  | Background green                           |
| bg\_yellow | Background yellow                          |
| bg\_blue   | Background blue                            |
| bg\_purple | Background purple                          |
| bg\_cyan   | Background cyan                            |
| bg\_white  | Background white                           |
| inverse    | Invert background and foreground           |
| bold       | Text to bold                               |
| underline  | Underline text                             |
| bright     | Foreground bright                          |
| norm       | Reset foreground and background to default |

# TABLE COLUMN FORMAT

The **tty table** command takes a list of columns, each of which is a
list of 4 elements:

  - The column title.
  - The column key (key into the row dictionary for this column’s
    value).
  - The alignment of the characters within this column, one of: *left*,
    *right*, *centre*.
  - Additional options for this column’s format. Currently supported is
    *-size*, which can take the values *fixed*, *grow*, *shrink* or
    *both*, and which controls how this column’s width is adjusted in
    response to an excess or deficit in the availability of space for
    the table.

# EXAMPLES

Format a table:

``` tcl
set data {
    {
        server      web1
        status      up
        r/s         23.4163626
    }
    {
        server      web2
        status      down
        r/s         {}
    }
    {
        server      web3
        status      up
        r/s         21.4381318
    }
}

puts [tty table \
    -data $data \
    -columns {
        { Status       status  centre  {-size fixed} }
        { Server       server  left    {-size grow}  }
        { Requests/sec r/s     right   {-size fixed} }
    } -formatters {
        status {v {
            if {$v eq "up"} {
                tty colour green {set v}
            } else {
                tty colour red {set v}
            }
        }}
        r/s {v {
            if {$v eq ""} {
                tty colour red {return -level 0 --}
            } else {
                format %.1f $v
            }
        }}
    } \
]
```

# LICENSE

This package is Copyright 2021 Cyan Ogilvie, and is made available under
the same license terms as the Tcl Core.
